The President:
Hi, everybody.
In my State of
the Union Address,
I laid out my ideas to
help working families
feel more secure and earn
the skills required
to advance in a world
of constant change.
And in a new economy
that's increasingly
built on knowledge and
innovation, a core element
of this middle-class
economics is how well
we prepare our kids
for the future.
For decades, we threw money
at education without
making sure our schools
were actually improving,
or whether we were giving
teachers the tools they need,
or whether our taxpayer dollars
were being used effectively.
And our kids too
often paid the price.
Now, over the past few years,
we've seen signs that our
elementary and secondary school
students are doing better.
Last year, our younger
students earned
the highest math and
reading scores on record.
Last week, we learned
that our high school
graduation rate hit a
new all-time high.
This is progress.
But in a 21st century economy,
our kids will only do better
than we did if we educate them
better than we were educated.
So we have to do more to
make sure they graduate
from school fully prepared
for college and a career.
This year, I want to work
with both parties in Congress
to replace No Child Left
Behind with a smarter law
that addresses the overuse
of standardized tests,
makes a real investment
in preschool,
and gives every kid a fair
shot in the new economy.
Now, it's pretty
commonsense that
an education bill should
actually improve education.
But as we speak, there's
a Republican bill
in Congress that would
frankly do the opposite.
At a time when we should
invest more in our kids,
their plan would lock
in cuts to schools for
the rest of this decade.
We'd end up actually
invest less in our
kids in 2021 than we
did in 2012.
At a time when we should give
our teachers all the resources
they need, their plan could
let states and cities
shuffle education dollars
into things like sports
stadiums or tax cuts
for the wealthy.
At a time when we have to
give every child, everywhere,
a fair shot - this Congress
would actually allow states
to make even deeper cuts
into school districts that
need the most support,
send even more money
to some of the wealthiest
school districts in America,
and turn back the clock
to a time when too many
students were left behind
in failing schools.
Denying a quality education
to the children of working
families is as wrong
as denying health care
or child care to
working families.
We are better than this.
I have a different vision
for the middle class.
In today's world, we have
to equip all our kids
with an education that
prepares them for
success, regardless of
what they look like,
or how much their parents
make, or the zip code
they live in.
And that means
trying new things,
investing in what's working,
and fixing what's not.
That means cutting testing
down to the bare minimum
required to make sure
parents and teachers know
how our kids and schools
are doing from year
to year, and relative
to schools statewide.
That means giving the
teachers and principals
who do the hard work every
day the resources they need
to spend less time teaching
to a test, and more time
teaching our kids the
skills they need.
Some of these
changes are hard.
They'll require all of us to
demand more of our schools
and more of our kids,
making sure they put down
the video games and iPhones,
and pick up the books.
They'll require us to demand
that Washington treat
education reform as the
dedicated progress of decades -
something a town with
a short attention
span doesn't always
do very well.
But I'm confident
we can do this.
When it comes to education,
we are not a collection
of states competing
against one another;
we're a nation competing
against the world.
Nothing will determine
our success as a nation
in the 21st century more than
how well we educate our kids.
And we shouldn't accept
anything less than the best.
So, thanks everybody,
and before I go -
Happy Valentine's
Day, Michelle.
Have a great
weekend, everybody.
Bye-bye.